Let's do this exercise together.
Hopefully you're able
to make some headway.
But before we get started
on this exercise,
I wanted to address two questions,
one from the classroom and one from chat.
And the first question
was actually about this
rule about the data
passing must be an array.
So the question was,
within the array does it matter what's
in the array, can it be text or?
And so
the answer is as long as it's an array,
what's inside could be anything you want.
It could be objects, it could be text,
it could be numbers.
As long as it's an array that's wrapping
around it, and then what's going to happen
is that every element in the array is
going to get bound to your DOM element.
So as long as that's what you intend
to get bound to your DOM element,
it should all work fine.
And it just occurred to me an interesting
scenario of, what if you have an array and
some of them are objects and some of them
are text, I think d3 still should work.
It should just bind all
of that no problem.
I wanna know a use case for
that though if you have different types
of data structures in there,
I don't know but, it should be.
I'm sure there's edge cases but
from my experience,
as long as it's an array,
what's inside doesn't matter.
As long as what's inside is what you
intend to get bound to that DOM element.
So that was the first question.
The second question was
about the width and
the height that we're setting on our SVG.
So in the previous example, we kind of
hard coded the width and height setting.
We hard coded it to like 250
pixels wide and 100 pixels tall.
And the question was
about how to dynamically,
if we want to make it responsive
how do we deal with that.
And so I know that Mark had answered and
that we should have it.
So the first step is if we're
trying to make it responsive
on window resize,
then what we want to do is in JavaScript
bind an event listener to
the window resize event.
And then we want to be updating our,
usually we'll have when
we're creating data visualization and
we want the container to be responsive.
We'll have a variable width, or
we'll have a width defined and
then we'll have a height variable defined.
And then within that kind of like resize
callback we'll just update the width and
height.
And then we'll also set that variable
width and height on to the SVG.
And then, depending on what you're trying
to do within the SVG, how you're trying to
position everything, then we can use
these width and height variables to,
we can kind of rerun the position
calculation every time a resize happens.
So I'm just going to kind of show
you really quickly before we get on
with the rest of the exercise code,
kind of that function I mentioned
earlier about calculate a grid position.
So that's a kind of utility
function I created.
And what that function is doing is
taking the index of our element.
And we're just saying that depending on,
and
actually what we're also doing is and
depending on,
I've hard coded in how wide I want
each of our petal paths to be.
And then we're saying depending
on the width of our container,
I want to divide that by
the width of our SVG element, or
sorry, the width of our path element.
And that's how many of the petals
that we'll have per row.
So in this case,
it seems that our container width divided
by our petal width is going to be seven.
And then given that per row number,
I go and
calculate the position for each petal.
And that is the x position is basically
the index modular perRow and
then multiplied by the width of the path.
And the y position is
the index divided by per row.
So it's kind of like which row it's on and
times the size of the path.
And that's how we're kind of
doing the xy positioning.
And that's how we can also potentially
make our SVG container and
also the position of everything
within that SVG dynamic based and
responsive based on window size.
Yeah, so having said that, let's go and
and create all of these petals together.
So what we're gonna do is the very
first thing is we're going to go and
grab or select the SVG.
So d3.select(svg), and
let's then create a path for each movie.
So select all the path right now that
should return an empty selection.
We're going to bind the movies data.
And if you go up and take a look,
the movies is an array of objects.
And then we're going to say,
insert a path element for
each movie in our movies array.
And so if you go and inspect this SVG and
if you go and kind of open it up.
Can never, all right, if you open it up,
then you can see that
a lot of path elements,
specifically 135 of them,
have been created.
And then what we want to do is now
that we have a path for each movie.
We want to basically do the same thing
that we did in the last exercise, which
is we're going to use the data that's been
bound up and set attributes with them.
So let's the first one that we can set
is our define attribute on our path.
And so
we have our lookup is I
think called a path object.
And so what we're gonna do is
we're going to do path object and
we're going to, sorry,
that shouldn't be a string, yes, okay.
So and we're being passed
in the data that's bound.
And in that bound data, we have so
this is our bound data.
In here we have something called rated and
that's our PG rating.
And that's going to determine
our define attribute.
And so let's go back in and do that.
And so that's path object and
we're going to use d.rated.
So if we do that, if we did that
correctly, we should be seeing
some paths.
But we are not, so let's debug that.
That's because I was silly.
So we need to be able to say
that the attribute we're setting
is the d attribute, and
then we're passing in the data,
calling the data that's been bound d,
passing that in.
And then using that to get the d string
that we want, that's there we go.
So there's an all of these petals
are being rendered up here,
overlapping each other.
And obviously, that's not what we want,
we want them in a nice grid.
So we're going to use
an attribute called transform.
And within transform,
we're going to use translate.
So again, let's pass in a function and
that function we
want both the data that's been
bound on that DOM element and
the index of that DOM element or
that path element.
And so in this case,
we're going to use index and
we're going to write a string and
translate.
And in here, we are going to
call calculateGridPosition.
It's the function that
I had shown earlier.
And let's pass in the index for
each of these path elements.
And this right here will
evaluate to an array of x and y.
And so if we pass that in
to those translate string,
it should give us back a string
that looks like translate xy.
So this is what we ultimately want.
And if we go and
evaluate that, there we go.
We have all of our 135 petals in a grid.
>> People in the chat room are asking
if there's a way to fork it and
share the code or?
>> Yes, so I believe if you can see,
that'd be really cool to
see everybody's notebooks.
So you should be able to
if you go up to the top
right next to maybe you'll see publish.
But right up here, you'll see these
three dots and you can click on fork.
And as long as you're signed in, and
you can sign in with your GitHub account,
then you should be able to fork it and
have your own notebook.
The only thing that I'm
not 100% sure about is if
the, currently I'm saving your
petal paths in local storage.
I'm not 100% sure if that
will persist if you fork.
If it does not persist, what you
can do is again go to the workshop
utility notebook down here and
then update I think the path.
So update the, let's see,
Yes, update the petal paths and
with your custom petal.
So, that should be once you've done that,
then it should persist through
the rest of your notebooks.
But hopefully it will just work.
Hopefully the local
storage will just work.
Okay, so
now that we've translated our petals,
and we've also defined our string for
what each petal should look like.
Let's go ahead and color that again.
And we'll do this quickly together
again just so repetition I think helps.
But if you don't want to, you can just
copy it over from the previous notebook.
So let's go and use the color object and
use the first genre as lookup or
if that doesn't exist,
then we can just use the other color and
color object.
Same thing for stroke, so
I'm just gonna copy that over.
And there we go.
We have all of our paths colored now.
Then let's just go in and
put in a fill opacity for fun.
And we'll put in a stroke width,
you can do whatever stroke width you want.
I'm gonna do 2 and there we go.
So this is our, now we have a petal for
each of the 135 movies.